# Quality Checker Component

To evaluate synthetic data generated through LLMs, we developed python code to collect quantitative metric related to  diversity, correctness, and hallucination, as defined as follow. 

## Correctness Metric

The Correctness metric measures whether the data instance is related to the given label. Existing approaches for measuring correctness can be divided into two categories: automatic evaluation and human evaluation. Human evaluation has been conducted by prompt engineers to self-tune the \textit{Few-shot In-Context Learning} component. Automatic evaluation has been implemented to check the correctness of event syntax using the following metric:

[![\\ \begin{equation}\label{eq:eq1} \\ \footnotesize \\ \begin{aligned} \\     C(\tau^{+}_{j}) = \frac{\sum_{k=1}^{s} c(e^{+}_{j,k})}{|\tau^{+}_{j}|}, \ \ \text{where} \ \ \\     c(e^{+}_{j,k}) = \begin{cases} \\           1 \ \text{if $e^{+}_{j,k}$ has correct syntax}  \\ \\           0 \ \text{otherwise} \\     \end{cases} \\ \end{aligned} \\ \normalsize \\ \end{equation}]

This metric can be evaluated on the full $\tau^{+}_{j}$ synthetic trace while it is possible to cluster the metrics w.r.t syntax features (i.e., MER metamodel classes).

## Diversity Metric

Diversity measures the difference between a chunk of text and another in the generated instances. In this work, we evaluate differences between synthetic traces generated by LLMs and real traces generated by designers using the MER component. The considered metrics are the follows: 


1. Edit-based similarities, also known as distance-based, measure the minimum number of single-character operations (e.g., insertions, deletions, or substitutions) required to transform one string into another. 
    - Levenshtein: Given two traces, the Levenshtein distance between them is the minimum number of single-character edits (insertions, deletions, or substitutions) required to change one trace into the other. Starting from the Levenshtein distance, the Levenshtein similarity is defined as follows:
